---
title: Ansible
date: 2025-06-17 22:30:00 +0930
categories: [automation, ansible]
tags: [devsecops,automation,ansible,wsl] #TAG names should always be in lowercase
---

# Ansible

Lately, I’ve been messing around with Ansible, and I’ve got to say — I’m hooked. It makes automating stuff in my home lab way easier than I expected. I’ve been using it to spin up servers, push configs, and generally save myself from doing the same boring tasks over and over. What I really like is how simple it is to get going — just a few YAML files and you’re off. It’s also been a fun way to bring some of that DevSecOps thinking into my personal setup without overcomplicating things.

So for this first post, I thought I’d share how I set up Ansible from scratch — what worked, what didn’t, and a few tips that would’ve saved me some time. If you're just getting started or curious about automating your own setup, this one’s for you.

I'll cover how to get Ansible quickly up and running this will be a quick post as its my first, I'll assume you have a working WSL instance on your machine. Here we go boot up your WSL instance mine is Ubuntu and follow these steps:

- Update your ubuntu instance, this is an important step and later we will use ansible to automate this
  
  ```shell
  sudo apt-get update && apt-get upgrade -y
  ```
  
  depending on when you created your instance this might take a bit

- Run the following command to install ansible

  ```shell
  sudo apt install ansible -y
  ```

SUCCESS! you now have the Ansible installed, now let the automation fun begin!